README.md, before:

# Darkroom - Yet Another Image Proxy

<p align="center"><img src="website/static/img/darkroom-logo.png" width="360"></p>

[![build status](https://travis-ci.com/gojek/darkroom.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/gojek/darkroom)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/gojek/darkroom/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/gojek/darkroom?branch=master)
[![Docs latest](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docs-latest-blue.svg)](https://www.gojek.io/darkroom/)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/gojek/darkroom?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/gojek/darkroom)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/gojek/darkroom)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/gojek/darkroom)
[![GolangCI](https://golangci.com/badges/github.com/gojek/darkroom.svg)](https://golangci.com)
[![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/gojek/darkroom.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/gojek/darkroom/releases)
[![Mentioned in Awesome Go](https://awesome.re/mentioned-badge.svg)](https://github.com/avelino/awesome-go)  

## Introduction

[Darkroom](https://www.gojek.io/darkroom/) combines the [storage backend](pkg/storage) and the [image processor](pkg/processor) and acts as an `Image Proxy` on your image source.  
You may [implement](https://www.gojek.io/darkroom/docs/customization#custom-storage-example) your own `Storage` and `Processor` interfaces to gain custom functionality while still keeping other Darkroom Server functionality.  
The native implementations focus on speed and resiliency.

## Features

Darkroom supports several image operations which are documented [here](https://www.gojek.io/darkroom/docs/usage/size).

## Installation

```bash
go get -u github.com/gojek/darkroom
```
Other ways to run can be found [here](https://www.gojek.io/darkroom/docs/getting-started#running-the-image-proxy-service).

### Contributing Guide

Read our [contributing guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn about our development process, how to propose bugfixes and improvements, and how to build and test your changes to Darkroom.

## License

Darkroom is [MIT licensed](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

Prometheus support (#56)
* integrated prometheus service, exposed metrics, changed storage to local for testing and added gcc support  for Docker

* created MetricService, implements prometheus metrics to track durations in manipulator and errors in ImageHandler

* changed to custom prometheus registry to avoid duplicate metrics registration

* created mock_metric_service for usage in tests

* added integration test for prometheus metrics

* removed volumes, used for testing for darkroom service

* Initialized prometheus registry in runtime context and passed it to routes, so removed 'AddMetricsEndPoint()'

* removed runtime initialization of prometheus registry to avoid panic due to duplicate registration, moved it to dependencies

* updated prometheus golang client to v1.7.1

* added assertions on 'Count' methods of MetricService

* grouped all metrics into two, image_prcoess_duration and image_handler_errors with additional labels

* added grafana provisioning for metrics

* initialized runtime prometheus registry in root, changed ports in docker-compose

* implemented statsD from MetricService, changed grafana datasource

* changed runtime prometheus Pedantic registry to custom

* added a switch for MetricService based on env variables

* update README, changed query for grafana dashboard

* added NoOpMetricService as default when metric system is not specified

Co-authored-by: Chaitanya Reddy <chaitanya@chaitanya.reddy>

README.md, after:

# Darkroom - Yet Another Image Proxy

<p align="center"><img src="website/static/img/darkroom-logo.png" width="360"></p>

[![build status](https://travis-ci.com/gojek/darkroom.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/gojek/darkroom)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/gojek/darkroom/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/gojek/darkroom?branch=master)
[![Docs latest](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docs-latest-blue.svg)](https://www.gojek.io/darkroom/)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/gojek/darkroom?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/gojek/darkroom)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/gojek/darkroom)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/gojek/darkroom)
[![GolangCI](https://golangci.com/badges/github.com/gojek/darkroom.svg)](https://golangci.com)
[![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/gojek/darkroom.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/gojek/darkroom/releases)
[![Mentioned in Awesome Go](https://awesome.re/mentioned-badge.svg)](https://github.com/avelino/awesome-go)  

## Introduction

[Darkroom](https://www.gojek.io/darkroom/) combines the [storage backend](pkg/storage) and the [image processor](pkg/processor) and acts as an `Image Proxy` on your image source.  
You may [implement](https://www.gojek.io/darkroom/docs/customization#custom-storage-example) your own `Storage` and `Processor` interfaces to gain custom functionality while still keeping other Darkroom Server functionality.  
The native implementations focus on speed and resiliency.

## Features

Darkroom supports several image operations which are documented [here](https://www.gojek.io/darkroom/docs/usage/size).

## Installation

```bash
go get -u github.com/gojek/darkroom
```
Other ways to run can be found [here](https://www.gojek.io/darkroom/docs/getting-started#running-the-image-proxy-service).

## Metrics Support

Darkroom supports Prometheus and StatsD for tracking and monitoring metrics.
You need to specify the metrics system by adding an environment variable, `METRICS_SYSTEM=prometheus/statsd`
### Prometheus
The application exposes the metrics at "http://<application_url>/metrics" endpoint. Since it's a pull based system, Prometheus server that is set up from docker-compose scrapes metrics from the application endpoint and its configuration can be changed in prometheus.yml. 
### StatsD
In order to use StatsD as your metrics system, you also need to add the following env variables, 
```
METRICS_STATSD_STATSDADDR=hostname:port
METRICS_STATSD_PREFIX=client-prefix
METRICS_STATSD_SAMPLERATE=sample-rate
METRICS_STATSD_FLUSHBYTES=flushbytes
```
These are used to set up the StatsD client.
### Grafana
Darkroom currently supports grafana provisioning for Prometheus based metrics.

Grafana is preconfigured with dashboards and Prometheus as the default data source:

* Name: Prometheus
* Type: Prometheus
* Url: http://prometheus:9090
* Access: proxy

Visualization of Darkroom metrics(prometheus) on Grafana:

<p align="center"><img src="deployments/grafana/provisioning/dashboards/dashboard_example.png"></p>

### Contributing Guide

Read our [contributing guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn about our development process, how to propose bugfixes and improvements, and how to build and test your changes to Darkroom.

## License

Darkroom is [MIT licensed](./LICENSE).
